!!!Third Party JMS Provider Integration

This tutorial describes how to integrate third party JMS providers into JBoss and EJB3 Message Driven
Beans. This tutorial is based on integration with OpenJMS, but applies to any third party JMS provider.
OpenJMS is not included as part of this tutorial. In order to run the example, you will need to download,
install, and start OpenJMS. You will also need to copy the appropriate jars into the {{thirdparty}}
directory.

!!The JMS Resource Adaptor

There are two mechanisms you can use to integrate the third party provider. MDBs in JBoss EJB3
are based on JMS JCA resource adaptors. The adaptors handle the integration with the JMS provider
as well as handling transactions, thread pooling, etc.

The first and often the preferred mechanism is to use a JMS JCA resource adaptor provided by the
third party vendor. Some vendors supply resource adaptors, others do not. If this is the chosen approach,
you need to annotate your MDB with @org.jboss.annotation.ejb.ResourceAdaptor("thirdparty.rar") and then
add the @ActivationConfigProperty annotations with the properties described by the third party vendor
and supported by their resource adaptor.

The second mechanism uses the JBoss JMS JCA resource adaptor and is described in detail here.

!! The Third Party Provider

Take a look at [thirdparty-jms-service.xml|thirdparty-jms-service.xml]. This file describes the service
that defines how to communicate with the third party provider. You typically define:
{{{
ProviderName - the JNDI binding (in JBoss JNDI) of the provider, which is referenced by the MDB
ProviderAdapterClass - the JBoss class used to implement the provider adaptor
QueueFactoryRef - the JNDI binding (in third party JNDI) of the third party QueueConnectionFactory 
TopicFactoryRef - the JNDI binding (in third party JNDI) of the third partt TopicConnectionFactory
Properties - the JNDI properties used to access the third party JNDI service
}}}

!! The MDB

Take a look at [ExampleMDB.java|src/org/jboss/tutorial/thirdpartyjms/bean/ExampleMDB]. Note there is
no @ResourceAdaptor annotation as by default MDBs are configured to use the JBoss JMS JCA resource
adaptor. Also, note that we have defined the {{providerAdapterJNDI}} property to be the name we defined
in [thirdparty-jms-service.xml|thirdparty-jms-service.xml]. The {{destination}} and {{dLQJNDIName}}
properties are the JNDI bindings of the queues in the third party JNDI service.

!Building and Running
To build and run the example, make sure you have {{ejb3.deployer}} installed in JBoss 4.x and have JBoss running.  See the reference manual on how to install EJB 3.0.  
{{{
Unix:    $ export JBOSS_HOME=<where your jboss 4.x distribution is>
Windows: $ set JBOSS_HOME=<where your jboss 4.x distribution is>
$ ant
$ ant run

}}}

Look at the client window to determine that the message was sent.

{{{
run:
     [java] Message sent successfully to remote third party queue
}}}

Look in the console window to determine that the messages was received.

{{{
16:08:08,233 INFO  [STDOUT] ----------------
16:08:08,233 INFO  [STDOUT] Received message
16:08:08,233 INFO  [STDOUT] ----------------
}}}




