!!!EJB3 over HTTP/HTTPS
This tutorial describes how to access EJB3s via HTTP or HTTPS (HTTP over SSL). This is typically
done when the beans are deployed behind a firewall so the client needs to communicate via
a protocol and port allowed through the firewall. There are several steps required to configure the
client, the server, and the beans to enable HTTP/HTTPS. Lets cover these one by one.

!! Enabling Web Connectors
Take a look at [jboss-web.deployer/server.xml|jboss-web.deployer/server.xml], which is in the
deploy directory. The [server.xml|jboss-web.deployer/server.xml] file
will need to be modified from the default.  Both the HTTP
and HTTPS Connectors are enabled on ports 8080 and 8443, respectively. Notice the settings that
distinguish HTTP from HTTPS. Note that the HTTPS Connector has parameters for the keystore 
and truststore. This is where the digitial certificates and public/private keys are stored
that are used by SSL. More on keystore config later. 

!! Enabling Servlets
Take a look at [servlet-invoker.war|servlet-invoker.war], specifically the [WEB-INF/web.xml|servlet-invoker.war/WEB-INF/web.xml]
file. The {{servlet-invoker.war}} directory needs to be created per this example and deployed
in the deploy directory. This will deploy the servlets that handle the HTTP and HTTPS requests.
Notice that in [web.xml|servlet-invoker.war/WEB-INF/web.xml] file there are two servlets. The HTTP servlet defines the 
{{invokerName}} and the HTTPS servlet defines the {{locatorUrl}}. These parameters will be used
when configuring the EJB3 Connectors and the beans.

!! Enabling EJB3 Connectors
Take a look at [ejb3.deployer/META-INF/jboss-service.xml|ejb3.deployer/META-INF/jboss-service.xml], 
which is in the deploy directory. The [jboss-service.xml|ejb3.deployer/META-INF/jboss-service.xml]
will need to be modified from the default. At the bottom of the file you will see two MBeans that are not
included in the default configuration. These MBeans configure the EJB3 Connectors for HTTP and
HTTPS. Notice the {{InvokerLocator}} parameters in each of the Connector configs.

!! Keystores and Truststores
You will need to generate public/private key pairs and digital certificates to enable SSL. The
JDK provides a {{keytool}} utility for the generation and management of keys and certificates.
The server keystore contains the server side public and private keys as well as the client's certificate, which 
includes the client public key. The server truststore contains the client's certificate, which 
indicates that the owner of the certificate is trusted. Conversely, the client side needs access
to the truststore, which contains the server's certificate, which indicates that the owner of the
certificate is trusted. Typically, the keystore and truststore are placed in the {{conf}} directory
on the server side.

!! Bean Configuration
Take a look at [CalculatorHttpBean.java|src/org/jboss/tutorial/http_https/bean/CalculatorHttpBean.java] and
[CalculatorHttpsBean.java|src/org/jboss/tutorial/http_https/bean/CalculatorHttpsBean.java]. Not the 
{{@RemoteBinding(clientBindUrl=".."")}} annotations. The {{clientBindUrl}} settings correspond
to the {{InvokerLocator}} parameters configured on the server side. 

!Client
Take a look at [Client.java|src/org/jboss/tutorial/http_https/client/Client.java]. You will see
examples of invoking the Calculator bean via both HTTP and HTTPS. Note the configuration of the
{{HostnameVerifier}}. This is required in some cases where the hostname in the URL does not
match the expected URL hostname. The {{HostnameVerifier}} handles this scenario.

!Building and Running
To build and run the example, make sure you have {{ejb3.deployer}} installed in JBoss 4.x.
See the reference manual on how to install EJB 3.0. You will need to modify the JBossAS {{run}} script
to configure the keystore. The following needs to be added to the JAVA_OPTS, which
are passed to the VM:

{{JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_OPTS -Djavax.net.ssl.keyStore=$JBOSS_HOME/server/default/conf/localhost.keystore -Djavax.net.ssl.keyStorePassword=opensource -Djava.protocol.handler.pkgs=javax.net.ssl"}}

Then run {{ant}}. This will replace the default configuration with the HTTP and HTTPS enabled
configuration. Start JBoss. Once JBoss is started with these options, you can run the client.
Take a look at [build.xml|build.xml]. Note that there are VM options for the truststore being passed to the client VM.

{{{
Unix:    $ export JBOSS_HOME=<where your jboss 4.x distribution is>
Windows: $ set JBOSS_HOME=<where your jboss 4.x distribution is>
$ ant run
Buildfile: build.xml

run:
     [java] Kabir is a student.
     [java] Kabir types in the wrong password
     [java] Saw expected SecurityException: null
     [java] Kabir types in correct password.
     [java] Kabir does unchecked addition.
     [java] 1 + 1 = 2
     [java] Kabir is not a teacher so he cannot do division
     [java] null
     [java] Students are allowed to do subtraction
     [java] 1 - 1 = 0
     [java] Kabir is a student.
     [java] Kabir types in the wrong password
     [java] Warning: URL Host: localhost vs. 192.168.1.57
     [java] Saw expected SecurityException: null
     [java] Kabir types in correct password.
     [java] Kabir does unchecked addition.
     [java] Warning: URL Host: localhost vs. 192.168.1.57
     [java] 1 + 1 = 2
     [java] Kabir is not a teacher so he cannot do division
     [java] Warning: URL Host: localhost vs. 192.168.1.57
     [java] null
     [java] Students are allowed to do subtraction
     [java] Warning: URL Host: localhost vs. 192.168.1.57
     [java] 1 - 1 = 0
}}}



